7. If you’re not sure which answer choice is right, try
ruling out some that are clearly wrong.
Ruling out some clearly wrong answer choices can help you find the right
answer choice. If you’re still undecided between two answer choices, study
the passage again for clues you may have missed.

8. Pace yourself.
You have less than two minutes per question. You need to spend much of
that time reading the passages. To avoid running out of time, don’t spend
too long on any one question. If you get stuck on a question for a couple of
minutes after you’ve ruled out some of the answer choices, just pick the
remaining choice that seems best. Then go to the next question.
    To register for the GMAT™ exam, go to www.mba.com/register

4.4 Practice Questions: Reading
Comprehension
Each of the Reading Comprehension questions is based on the content
of a passage. After reading the passage, answer all questions pertaining
to it on the basis of what is stated or implied in the passage. For each
question, select the best answer of the choices given. On the actual
GMAT exam, you will see no more than four questions per passage.
Questions 1 to 47 — Difficulty: Easy
Line    Human beings, born with a drive to explore
     and experiment, thrive on learning. Unfortunately,
     corporations are oriented predominantly toward
     controlling employees, not fostering their learning.
(5) Ironically, this orientation creates the very
     conditions that predestine employees to mediocre
     performances. Over time, superior performance
     requires superior learning, because long-term
     corporate survival depends on continually exploring
(10) new business and organizational opportunities that
     can create new sources of growth.
        To survive in the future, corporations must
     become “learning organizations,” enterprises that
     are constantly able to adapt and expand their
(15) capabilities. To accomplish this, corporations must
     change how they view employees. The traditional
     view that a single charismatic leader should set the
     corporation’s direction and make key decisions is
     rooted in an individualistic worldview. In an
(20) increasingly interdependent world, such a view is
     no longer viable. In learning organizations, thinking
     and acting are integrated at all job levels. Corporate
     leadership is shared, and leaders become
     designers, teachers, and stewards, roles requiring
(25) new skills: the ability to build shared vision, to
     reveal and challenge prevailing mental models, and
     to foster broader, more integrated patterns of
     thinking. In short, leaders in learning organizations
     are responsible for building organizations in which
(30) employees are continually learning new skills and
     expanding their capabilities to shape their future.
Questions 1–4 refer to the passage.

  1. According to the passage, traditional corporate leaders differ from
     leaders in learning organizations in that the former
    A. encourage employees to concentrate on developing a wide range
       of skills
    B. enable employees to recognize and confront dominant corporate
       models and to develop alternative models
    C. make important policy decisions alone and then require
       employees in the corporation to abide by those decisions
    D. instill confidence in employees because of their willingness to
       make risky decisions and accept their consequences
    E. are concerned with offering employees frequent advice and career
       guidance
2. Which of the following best describes employee behavior encouraged
   within learning organizations, as such organizations are described in
   the passage?
    A. Carefully defining one’s job description and taking care to avoid
       deviations from it
    B. Designing mentoring programs that train new employees to
       follow procedures that have been used for many years
    C. Concentrating one’s efforts on mastering one aspect of a
       complicated task
    D. Studying an organizational problem, preparing a report, and
       submitting it to a corporate leader for approval
    E. Analyzing a problem related to productivity, making a decision
       about a solution, and implementing that solution
3. According to the author of the passage, corporate leaders of the future
   should do which of the following?
    A. They should encourage employees to put long-term goals ahead
       of short-term profits.
    B. They should exercise more control over employees in order to
       constrain production costs.
    C. They should redefine incentives for employees’ performance
       improvement.
    D. They should provide employees with opportunities to gain new
       skills and expand their capabilities.
    E. They should promote individual managers who are committed to
       established company policies.
4. The primary purpose of the passage is to
