139. C
140. E
141. B
142. B
143. D

4.6 Answer Explanations: Reading
Comprehension
The following discussion of Reading Comprehension is intended to
familiarize you with the most efficient and effective approaches to the
kinds of problems common to Reading Comprehension. The particular
questions in this chapter are generally representative of the kinds of
Reading Comprehension questions you will encounter on the GMAT
exam. Remember that it is the problem-solving strategy that is
important, not the specific details of a particular question.
Questions 1 to 47 — Difficulty: Easy
Questions 1–4 refer to the passage on page 52.

  1. According to the passage, traditional corporate leaders differ from
     leaders in learning organizations in that the former
         A. encourage employees to concentrate on developing a wide range
            of skills
         B. enable employees to recognize and confront dominant corporate
            models and to develop alternative models
         C. make important policy decisions alone and then require
            employees in the corporation to abide by those decisions
         D. instill confidence in employees because of their willingness to
            make risky decisions and accept their consequences
         E. are concerned with offering employees frequent advice and career
            guidance
  Supporting Idea
  This question requires understanding of the contrast the passage draws
  between leaders of traditional corporations and leaders of learning
  organizations. According to the second paragraph, the former are
  traditionally charismatic leaders who set policy and make decisions,
  while the latter foster integrated thinking at all levels of the
  organization.
    A. According to the passage, it is leaders in learning organizations,
       not traditional corporate leaders, who encourage the development
       of a wide range of skills.
    B. Leaders in learning organizations are those who want their
       employees to challenge dominant models.
    C. Correct. The second paragraph states that traditional corporate
       leaders are individualistic; they alone set the corporation’s
       direction and make key decisions.
    D. The passage does not address the question of whether traditional
       corporate leaders instill confidence in employees. In fact, the first
       paragraph suggests that they may not; rather, they might come
       across as objectionably controlling.
    E. The passage suggests that advice and guidance are more likely to
       be offered by leaders of learning organizations than by leaders of
       traditional corporations.
  The correct answer is C.
2. Which of the following best describes employee behavior encouraged
   within learning organizations, as such organizations are described in
   the passage?
    A. Carefully defining one’s job description and taking care to avoid
       deviations from it
    B. Designing mentoring programs that train new employees to
       follow procedures that have been used for many years
    C. Concentrating one’s efforts on mastering one aspect of a
       complicated task
    D. Studying an organizational problem, preparing a report, and
       submitting it to a corporate leader for approval
    E. Analyzing a problem related to productivity, making a decision
       about a solution, and implementing that solution
  Application
  The second paragraph of the passage indicates that employees of
  learning organizations are encouraged to think and act for themselves;
  they learn new skills and expand their capabilities.
    A. Avoiding deviations from one’s carefully defined job description
       would more likely be encouraged in a traditional corporation, as
       described in the first paragraph, than in a learning organization.
    B. Any employee training that involves following long-standing
       procedures would more likely be encouraged in a traditional
       corporation than a learning organization.
    C. According to the passage, mastering only one aspect of a task, no
       matter how complicated, would be insufficient in a learning
       organization, in which broad patterns of thinking are encouraged.
    D. As described in the passage, the role of corporate leaders in
       learning organizations is not, characteristically, to approve
       employees’ solutions to problems, but rather to enable and
       empower employees to implement solutions on their own.
    E. Correct. Employees in learning organizations are expected to act
       on their own initiative; thus, they would be encouraged to analyze
       and solve problems on their own, implementing whatever
       solutions they devised.
  The correct answer is E.
3. According to the author of the passage, corporate leaders of the future
   should do which of the following?
    A. They should encourage employees to put long-term goals ahead
       of short-term profits.
    B. They should exercise more control over employees in order to
       constrain production costs.
