4.4 Practice Questions: Reading
Comprehension
      Questions 101 to 140 — Difficulty: Hard
      Line         Comparable worth, as a standard applied to eliminate
                inequities in pay, insists that the values of certain tasks
                performed in dissimilar jobs can be compared. In
                the last decade, this approach has become a critical
      (5)       social policy issue, as large numbers of private-sector
                firms and industries as well as federal, state, and local
                governmental entities have adopted comparable worth
                policies or begun to consider doing so.
                   This widespread institutional awareness of comparable
      (10)      worth indicates increased public awareness that pay
                inequities—that is, situations in which pay is not “fair”
                because it does not reflect the true value of a job—
                exist in the labor market. However, the question still
                remains: have the gains already made in pay equity
      (15)      under comparable worth principles been of a precedent-
                setting nature, or are they mostly transitory, a function
                of concessions made by employers to mislead female
                employees into believing that they have made long-term
                pay equity gains?
      (20)         Comparable worth pay adjustments are indeed
                precedent-setting. Because of the principles driving
                them, other mandates that can be applied to reduce
                or eliminate unjustified pay gaps between male and
                female workers have not remedied perceived pay
      (25)      inequities satisfactorily for the litigants in cases
                in which men and women hold different jobs. But
                whenever comparable worth principles are applied to
                pay schedules, perceived unjustified pay differences
                are eliminated. In this sense, then, comparable worth
      (30)      is more comprehensive than other mandates, such
                as the Equal Pay Act of 1963 and Title VII of the
                Civil Rights Act of 1964. Neither compares tasks
                in dissimilar jobs (that is, jobs across occupational
                categories) in an effort to determine whether or not
      (35)      what is necessary to perform these tasks—know-how,
                problem-solving, and accountability—can be
                quantified in terms of its dollar value to the employer.
                Comparable worth, on the other hand, takes as its
                premise that certain tasks in dissimilar jobs may
      (40)      require a similar amount of training, effort, and skill;
                may carry similar responsibility; may be carried on
                in an environment having a similar impact upon the
                worker; and may have a similar dollar value to the
                employer.
      Questions 137–140 refer to the passage.
