4.4 Practice Questions: Reading
Comprehension
      Questions 11 to 16 — Difficulty: Easy
      Line         In 1971 researchers hoping to predict earthquakes
                in the short term by identifying precursory phenomena
                (those that occur a few days before large quakes
                but not otherwise) turned their attention to changes
      (5)       in seismic waves that had been detected prior to
                earthquakes. An explanation for such changes was
                offered by “dilatancy theory,” based on a well-known
                phenomenon observed in rocks in the laboratory:
                as stress builds, microfractures in rock close,
      (10)      decreasing the rock’s volume. But as stress
                continues to increase, the rock begins to crack and
                expand in volume, allowing groundwater to seep in,
                weakening the rock. According to this theory, such
                effects could lead to several precursory phenomena in
      (15)      the field, including a change in the velocity of seismic
                waves, and an increase in small, nearby tremors.
                   Researchers initially reported success in identifying
                these possible precursors, but subsequent analyses
                of their data proved disheartening. Seismic waves
      (20)      with unusual velocities were recorded before some
                earthquakes, but while the historical record confirms
                that most large earthquakes are preceded by minor
                tremors, these foreshocks indicate nothing about
                the magnitude of an impending quake and are
      (25)      indistinguishable from other minor tremors that occur
                without large earthquakes.
                   In the 1980s, some researchers turned their
                efforts from short-term to long-term prediction.
                Noting that earthquakes tend to occur repeatedly in
      (30)      certain regions, Lindh and Baker attempted to identify
                patterns of recurrence, or earthquake cycles, on which
                to base predictions. In a study of earthquake-prone
                sites along the San Andreas Fault, they determined
                that quakes occurred at intervals of approximately 22
      (35)      years near one site and concluded that there was a
                95 percent probability of an earthquake in that area
                by 1992. The earthquake did not occur within the time
                frame predicted, however.
                   Evidence against the kind of regular
      (40)      earthquake cycles that Lindh and Baker tried
                to establish has come from a relatively new
                field, paleoseismology. Paleoseismologists
                have unearthed and dated geological features
                such as fault scarps that were caused by
      (45)      earthquakes thousands of years ago. They have
                determined that the average interval between ten
                earthquakes that took place at one site along the
                San Andreas Fault in the past two millennia was
                132 years, but individual intervals ranged greatly,
      (50)      from 44 to 332 years.
      Questions 11–16 refer to the passage.
